Automatic Melting Curve Reader for the Uni-Melt System. The Uni-Melt technique is inherently limited by the potential appearance of nonspecific signals induced by channel crosstalk that will obfuscate the results. Moreover, it is desired to optimize the fluorescence signal threshold parameters to facilitate a clear and distinguishable identification of the output peak profiles. To reduce error-prone manual reading and analysis under multiple samples and tests, it is best to automatically classify the experimental results to facilitate subsequent medical care. Therefore, we developed an automatic signal reader combined with recognition algorithms that could reliably find peaks among possible undesired signals. The flowchart of this automatic reader is shown in Figure 6A. The real HPV genotype peak was precisely selected by the global optimal algorithms. It builds up the solution piece by piece, always choosing the next piece that offers the most immediate benefit (Figure S6). Here, three typical examples were selected as model objects: HPV-16, HPV-31, and contamination (Figure 6B). The global optimal algorithm is a computational method designed to find the best melting curve peak from all feasible peaks. It can also ensure the absolute best peak by examining the entire temperature search space. Then, the greedy algorithm is utilized to find the local optimal peak at every 10 °C. The greedy algorithm can identify the locally optimal peak at each temperature stage. The reader result is shown in Figure 6C, and the two algorithms show only one peak readout for HPV samples. However, as for the contamination test, the global optimal algorithm shows one peak and the greedy algorithm shows several peaks (Figure 6D). Clinical samples are precisely recognized (Figure S7), indicating that the Uni-Melt system can differentiate interference signals through the comparison between these two algorithms.
